# Shell Init

- /etc/profile
  - All settings that you want to apply to all your users' environments should be in this file.

On systems offering multiple types of shells, it might be better to put Bash-specific configurations in this file,
since /etc/profile is also read by other shells, such as the Bourne shell. Errors generated by shells that
don't understand the Bash syntax are prevented by splitting the configuration files for the different types of
shells. In such cases, the user's ~/.bashrc might point to /etc/bashrc in order to include it in the shell
initialization process upon login.

~/.bash_profile
This is the preferred configuration file for configuring user environments individually.
In this file, users can add extra configuration options or change default settings.
Executed from the bash shell when you log in.

~/.bashrc
Today, it is more common to use a non-login shell, for instance when logged in graphically using X terminal
windows. Upon opening such a window, the user does not have to provide a user name or password; no
authentication is done. Bash searches for ~/.bashrc when this happens, so it is referred to in the files read
upon login as well, which means you don't have to enter the same settings in multiple files.

~/.profile
In the absence of ~/.bash_profile and ~/.bash_login, ~/.profile is read. It can hold the same
configurations, which are then also accessible by other shells. Mind that other shells might not understand the
Bash syntax.
 
~/.bash_logout
This file contains specific instructions for the logout procedure. In the example, the terminal window is
cleared upon logout. This is useful for remote connections, which will leave a clean window after closing
them.
